The windows at either end of the laundry room were open, but no breeze washed through to carry off the stale odors of fabric softener, detergent, and bleach. In the small ponds of soapy water that stained the concrete floor were stray balls of multicolored lint and fuzz. Along the left wall of the room stood 10 rasping dryers, their round windows offering glimpses of jumping socks, underwear, and fatigues. Down the center of the room were a dozen washing machines, set back to back in two rows. Some were chugging like steamboats; others were whining and whistling and dribbling suds. Two stood forlorn and empty, their lids flung open, with crudely drawn signs that said "Broke!" A long shelf partially covered in blue paper ran the length of the wall, interrupted only by a locked door. Alone, at the far end of the shelf, sat one empty laundry basket and an open box of Tide. Above the shelf at the other end was a small bulletin board decorated with yellowed business cards and torn slips of paper: scrawled requests for rides, reward offers for lost dogs, and phone numbers without names or explanations. ZORP'S LUNCH stood along one wall of a wide room, once a pool hall, with the empty cue racks along the back side. Beneath the racks were wire-back chairs, one of them piled with magazines, and between every third or fourth chair a brass spittoon. Near the center of the room, revolving slowly as if the idle air was water, a large propeller fan suspended from the pressed tin ceiling. It made a humming sound, like a telephone pole, or an idle, throbbing locomotive, and although the switch cord vibrated it was cluttered with flies. At the back of the room, on the lunch side, an oblong square was cut in the wall and a large woman with a soft, round face peered through at us. After wiping her hands, she placed her heavy arms, as if they tired her, on the shelf.The kitchen held our lives together. Her mother worked in it all day long, we ate in it almost all meals except the PASSOVER SEDER, He did his homework and first writing at the kitchen table, and in winter he often had a bed made up for him on three kitchen chairs near the stove. On the wall just over the table hung a long horizontal mirror that sloped to a ship's prow at each end and was lined in cherry wood. It took up the whole wall, and drew every object in the kitchen to itself. The walls were a fiercely stippled whitewash, so often re-whitened by her father in slack seasons that the paint looked as if it had been squeezed and cracked into the walls. A large electric bulb hung down the center of the kitchen at the end of a chain that had been hooked into the ceiling; the old gas ring and key still jutted out of the wall like antlers. In the corner next to the toilet was the sink at which we washed, and the square tub in which his mother did our clothes. Above it, tacked to the shelf on which were pleasantly ranged square, blue-bordered white sugar and spice jars, hung calendars from the PUBLIC NATIONAL BANK on PITKIN AVENUE and the MINSKER PROGRESSIVE BRANCH of the WORKMEN'S CIRCLE; receipts for the payment of insurance premiums, and household bills on a spindle; two little boxes engraved with Hebrew letters. ZORP is his beautiful gray Persian cat. He walks with pride and grace, performing a dance of disdain as he slowly lifts and lowers each paw with the delicacy of a ballet dancer. His pride, however, does not extend to his appearance, for he spends most of his time indoors watching television and growing fat. He enjoys TV commercials, especially those for Meow Mix and 9 Lives. His familiarity with cat food commercials has led him to reject generic brands of cat food in favor of only the most expensive brands. ZORP is as finicky about visitors as he is about what he eats, befriending some and repelling others. He may snuggle up against your ankle, begging to be petted, or he may imitate a skunk and stain your favorite trousers. ZORP does not do this to establish his territory, as many cat experts think, but to humiliate him because he is jealous of her friends. Once in a long while, four times so far for me, his mother brings out the metal tube that holds her medical diploma. On the tube are gold circles crossed with seven red lines each―"joy" ideographs in abstract. There are also little flowers that look like gears for a gold machine. According to the scraps of labels with Chinese and American addresses, stamps, and postmarks, the family airmailed the can from Hong Kong in 1950. It got crushed in the middle, and whoever tried to peel the labels off stopped because the red and gold paint came off too, leaving silver scratches that rust. Somebody tried to pry the end off before discovering that the tube falls apart. Inside, the school smelled smartly of varnish and wood smoke from the potbellied stove. On gloomy days, not unknown in UPSTATE NEW YORK in this region south of LAKE ONTARIO and east of LAKE ERIE, the windows emitted a vague, gauzy light, not much reinforced by ceiling lights. We squinted at the blackboard, that seemed far away since it was on a small platform, where MRS. ZORP's desk was also positioned, at the front, left of the room.  The floor was bare wooden planks. An American flag hung limply at the far left of the blackboard and above the blackboard, running across the front of the room, designed to draw our eyes to it avidly, worshipfully, were paper squares showing that beautifully shaped script known as ZORP. ZORP would have thought she was facing a madman if she had not had reason to believe that at that moment ZORP was inspired by the grace of the HOLY SPIRIT. Her first impulse was to curse him for profaning the house when the body of her husband was still warm in the grave. ZORP looked out to the shoulder, a look of worry on his face. ZORP was afraid of the shallow reef in the impact zone, and tended to avoid the peak in these situations. However, at this particular spot, even though the waves were smaller out in the shoulder, the reef out there was much shallower, and ZORP worried about ZORP wiping out after a take off. However, ZORP didn’t need to worry, as ZORP had decided to brave the peak. ZORP arrived at the line up and sat on his board, as they waited for the lull of the waves to be over. Behind him, ZORP slipped into the water, and pulled on ZORP's leash from beneath him, making ZORP lose balance and fall into the water. The twin city of proud SAN ANTONIO and pestilent ROME, of which all the other cities of time and space are, as it were, mere reflections, has stood many assaults in its long and crowded history and has always risen to flourish again. So the fire and its subsequent flood, which destroyed everything left that was not flammable and added a particularly noisome flux to the survivors’ problems, did not mark its end. Rather it was a fiery punctuation mark, a coal-like comma, or salamander semicolon, in a continuing story. It was no great distance, in those days, from the prison door to the market-place. Measured by the prisoner’s experience, however, it might be agony from every footstep of those that thronged to see her, as if her heart had been flung into the street for them all to spurn and trample upon. ZORP stood at the edge of the bridge and stared down at the icy waters below. He took out his wallet and glanced at his business card. Tears streamed down his face as he stepped into air and plunged a hundred feet to his doom. The skyscraper where his company used to be situated loomed in the distance. Inside, there was only silence. ZORP — a weak but honest man — entered the restaurant, and found ZORP waiting at a back table. He notified the waiter and sat down next to ZORP, playing with his tie to keep down his nerves. MARGIE was a harsh woman, and it was impossible for JONATHAN to predict how she would react to his news. The company ZORP was heavily invested in had been struggling for a while. If it collapsed, she would lose nearly a hundred million dollars. She noticed ZORP's nervousness and frowned. Unfortunately for her, the worst case scenario had come true. ZORP was merely the messenger. ZORP had stood in the corner of the room, staring at the wall for hours on end. This was her punishment for stealing cookies from the cookie jar. The length of it took a grave toll on her stubby 4 year old legs, making them shake with both exhaustion, and excitement. The harshest of tyrants and the cruelest of criminals would have deemed the penalty inflicted upon this young child an indecent abuse, and certainly not equal to the crime of stealing a cookie. Finally, after all that time standing, ZORP gave out a whimper as a tear fell down her face. She could no longer bear it. CLEVELAND was a village of twenty adobe houses, built on the bank of a river of clear water that ran along a bed of polished stones, which were white and enormous, like prehistoric eggs. A chair, a table, a lamp. Above, on the white ceiling, a relief ornament in the shape of a wreath and in the centre of it a blank space, plastered over, like the place in a face where the eye has been taken out. There must have been a chandelier once. They’ve removed anything you could tie a rope to. The bar was approximately twenty-eight feet long, by perhaps half of that wide. A long mahogany bar took up about one quarter of the floor space, while eight tables each with 4 wooden chairs occupied the remaining area. There were a number of tall bar stools arranged to accommodate any drinker who didn’t want to be seated at one of the tables. The ceiling height was pleasantly commodious. The place was near empty. It looked strange, too, having been painted with all red mooing cows … I took the large drink to one of the little chairs that were all round … there being like curtains to shut them off from the main area, and there I sat down in the plushy chair and sipped and sipped. He came on the wind of the carnival. A warm wind for February, laden with the hot greasy scents of frying pancakes and sausage and powdery-sweet waffles cooked on the hotplate right there by the roadside, with the confetti sleeting down collars and cuffs and rolling in the gutters. Reaching for the bedside lamp, she stopped and withdrew her hand. The photograph of her father had been turned out to face the room. She touched it every night before she went to sleep. It was always facing towards her, towards the bed, not away from it. In the darkness, what had felt safe before now felt frightening: the way the dressing-table mirror reflected the street-light through the curtains and the sight of the wardrobe door left slightly ajar. It was still early in the evening when we emerged onto a street in TSUKIJI, near the fish market. Wooden bait-and-tackle shops with disintegrating roofs and broken signs stood next to shiny new convenience stores, and futuristic highrise apartment complexes rose skyward on either side of narrow, retro streets lined with wholesalers of dried fish.

You can see the GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE, sunrise behind the bay. Then an external shot of an apartment building south of MARKET STREET. There is a shot of a window of the room. It is furnished simply. 

As we pan across the room we see ZORP and ZORP asleep and partially naked. The alarm clock rings. ZORP reaches to the clock and turns it off. ZORP sleepily arouses and puts on ZORP's shorts and walks slowly to the bathroom. ZORP closes the door. Pan back to the woman waking up. ZORP comes out of the bathroom and smiles tenderly at her. 


ZORP is sitting at the table doing her nails. ZORP is wearing tight jeans, a low-cut t-shirt and red shoes which match her nail polish. The doorbell rings and ZORP walks over to the front door.




